at the laboratories of the British
Antarctic Survey professor lloyd-pack
studies these creatures to find out just
how they survive and what makes the icy
ocean so advantageous for some forms of
life I haven't seen this that's a beauty
oh is it all right yeah no they're fine
if a predator comes along they open them
out push the gill cases out and push
their spines out to stop themselves
being eaten they breed in our tank and
they're one of the classic types of
Antarctic fish cancer the water is below
zero degrees but it's seawater so it
doesn't freeze and what you've seen here
is those animals living there are
permanently living below zero degrees
well the fish would freeze except for
the fact they've got antifreeze in there
in their blood and in their tissues and
in their bodies and they need antifreeze
to live in these temperatures they have
antifreeze in that work they make their
own antifreeze they have proteins that
are antifreeze protein because
antifreeze everywhere because we don't
it ice crystals would grow inside their
cells the drain site their blood and it
would just rip their tissues apart okay
so I've got another animal in here that
I want to show you this is a sea spider
and in Antarctica the sea spiders get
really big the biggest ones are 40
centimeters from Lake tipped elected so
that we were twice the sizes it's about
twice the size of that one
and the biggest sea spiders in the
Antarctic are a thousand maybe two
thousand three thousand times heavier
than the biggest sea spiders in Europe
why do they get to be so big
well the reason I get big is because
it's cold and there are two things that
happen when sea water gets cold one is
that the amount of oxygen that you can
get in the water goes up there's nearly
twice as much oxygen in the sea water in
Antarctica is in the tropics and because
it's cold their metabolic rates run much
slower than animals elsewhere so it's
like live cheaper grow bigger lift
cheaper growing bigger yeah and it's not
just the sea spiders that grow lines
this is a 40 on starfish it's an analyze
who's lucky name is Libby D Esther you
have a hold of that okay this is a
really small one okay the big ones get
up to 70 80 centimeters across so
they're huge they're one of the big
predators in the Antarctic on the seabed
there's he stomach they crawl over the
top of animals put their stomachs out
and eat them from the outside about the
ice that makes all these weird
adaptations and strange hours well the
ice helps keep the temperature constant
in the scenes and what it's done is it's
kept that temperature low and constant
for maybe 25 million years so it's not
just cold it's also study it is and the
Antarctic Ocean is possibly the most
constant temperature place on earth and
it's been there for such a long time
that the animals have been able to adapt
to it in a very fine scale way in a way
that hasn't happened anywhere else on
earth
these creatures are the product of a
unique ecosystem that revolves around
ice by studying how they've managed not
just to adapt but to thrive we can learn
about the impact of cold and how well
icy environments can support life
you